Direct extension authors to the quickstart guide rather than samples when they start creating a codebase for their new extensions (#15702)
docker/docker.github.io: desktop/extensions-sdk/build/set-up/minimal-backend-extension.md

---
title: Set up a minimal backend extension
description: Minimal backend extension tutorial
keywords: Docker, extensions, sdk, build
redirect_from:
  - /desktop/extensions-sdk/tutorials/minimal-backend-extension/
---

To start creating your extension, you first need a directory with files which range from the extension’s source code to the required extension-specific files. This page provides information on how to set up a simple Docker Extension that runs CLI commands in the backend.

For extensions with a backend service running REST services over sockets or named pipes, see the `vm-ui extension` [sample](https://github.com/docker/extensions-sdk/tree/main/samples).

> Note
>
> Before you start, make sure you have installed the latest version of [Docker Desktop](../../../release-notes.md).

> Note
>

> > If you want to start a codebase for your new extension, our [Quickstart guide](../../quickstart.md) and `docker extension init <my-extension>` will provide a better base for your extension, more up-to-date and related to your install of Docker Desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you want to start a codebase for your new extension, our [Quickstart guide](../../quickstart.md) and `docker extension init <my-extension>` provides a better base for your extension as it is more up-to-date and related to your install of Docker Desktop.
```

Reviewer: Sorry @gtardif, I should've added that this needs to be amended on each page where it is repeated

> **Warning**
>
> Do not replace the `${DESKTOP_PLUGIN_IMAGE}` placeholder in the `metadata.json` file. The placeholder is replaced automatically with the correct image name when the extension is installed.

> > {: .warning}

Reviewer 2: The warning class is not picked up correctly as the msg is blue instead of orange.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15997951/191443390-1801f2fe-d48e-45e4-9084-c167731fa935.png)

Author: Thx foc picking this up. Auto-formatting md files in VS Code is sometimes problematic...

Author: This is fixed with latest commit
